On this page 本页面中

Create Operations 创建操作
Read Operations 读操作
Update Operations 更新操作
Delete Operations 删除操作
Bulk Write 批量写
CRUD operations create, read, update, and delete documents.
CURD操作指的是文档的创建、读、更新以及删除操作。

Create Operations 创建操作
Create or insert operations add new documents to a collection. If the collection does not currently exist, insert operations will create the collection.
创建或者插入操作将新的文档添加到一个集合中。如果集合当前并不存在，插入操作会创建该集合。

MongoDB provides the following methods to insert documents into a collection:
MongoDB提供了以下两个方法来向集合中插入文档：

db.collection.insertOne() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
db.collection.insertMany() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
In MongoDB, insert operations target a single collection. All write operations in MongoDB are atomic on the level of a single document.
在MongoDB中，插入操作只针对单个集合。MongoDB中的所有写操作都是单个文档级别的原子操作。

The components of a MongoDB insertOne operations.

For examples, see Insert Documents.
关于示例，请参考【插入文档】。

Read Operations 读操作
Read operations retrieves documents from a collection; i.e. queries a collection for documents. MongoDB provides the following methods to read documents from a collection:
读操作从一个集合中检索文档；即查询集合中的文档。MongoDB提供了以下方法来从集合中读取文档：

db.collection.find()
You can specify query filters or criteria that identify the documents to return.
你可以指定查询过滤器或条件来标识要返回的文档

The components of a MongoDB find operation.

For examples, see:
更多示例，请参考：

Query Documents 查询文档
Query on Embedded/Nested Documents 查询嵌入式文档
Query an Array 查询数据
Query an Array of Embedded Documents 查询嵌入式文档的数组
Update Operations 更新操作
Update operations modify existing documents in a collection. MongoDB provides the following methods to update documents of a collection:
更新操作修改一个集合中已存在的文档。MongoDB提供了以下方法来更新一个集合中的文档：

db.collection.updateOne() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
db.collection.updateMany() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
db.collection.replaceOne() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
In MongoDB, update operations target a single collection. All write operations in MongoDB are atomic on the level of a single document.
在MongoDB中，更新操作只针对单个集合。MongoDB中的所有写操作都是单个文档级别的原子操作。

You can specify criteria, or filters, that identify the documents to update. These filters use the same syntax as read operations.
你可以指定查询过滤器或条件来标识要更新的文档，这里的过滤器和读操作的语法是一致的。

The components of a MongoDB updateMany operation.

For examples, see Update Documents.
关于示例，请参考【更新文档】。

Delete Operations 删除操作
Delete operations remove documents from a collection. MongoDB provides the following methods to delete documents of a collection:
删除操作从一个集合中删除文档。MongoDB提供了以下方法来从一个集合中删除文档：

db.collection.deleteOne() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
db.collection.deleteMany() New in version 3.2 3.2版本引入
In MongoDB, delete operations target a single collection. All write operations in MongoDB are atomic on the level of a single document.
在MongoDB中，删除操作只针对单个集合。MongoDB中的所有写操作都是单个文档级别的原子操作。

You can specify criteria, or filters, that identify the documents to remove. These filters use the same syntax as read operations.
你可以指定查询过滤器或条件来标识要更新的文档，这里的过滤器和读操作的语法是一致的。

The components of a MongoDB deleteMany operation.

For examples, see Delete Documents.
关于示例，请参考【删除文档】。

Bulk Write 批量写
MongoDB provides the ability to perform write operations in bulk. For details, see Bulk Write Operations.
MongoDB提供了批量执行写操作的能力。更多细节请参考【批量写操作】。


译者：刘翔
校对：徐雷
